# Commands
Every command should start with a `!` and has to be written in the chatbox

Command | Usage
------------ | -------------
!ad \<ad\> | Adds <ad> AD to your champion. Can be made negative to remove AD.
!ap \<ap\> | Adds <ap> AP to your champion. Can be made negative to remove AP.
!ch \<champion\> | Changes your champion with <champion>. NOTE: It is extremely buggy.
!changeteam \<teamId\> | Changes your team to <teamId>. NOTE: It is extremely buggy.
!coords | Shows your champion's coordinates in both in-game chat and server console.
!gold \<gold\> | Adds <gold> gold to your champion. Can be made negative to remove gold.
!health \<health\> | Adds <health> HP to your champion. Can be made negative to remove HP.
!help | Prints commands.
!inhib | Spawns a baron at where you are. Nothing else.
!junglespawn | Is supposed to spawn jungle camps, but it is not implemented yet.
!kill \<minionsblue\|minionspurple\> | Kills all the minions associated to the given team.
!level \<level\> | Levels your champion up to the level given.
!mana \<mana\> | Adds <mana> mana to your champion. Can be made negative to remove mana.
!mobs \<teamId\> | Pings the positions of all mobs associated to the given team.
!model \<model\> | Changes your model to the given one. NOTE: Entering an invalid model will crash everyone's game.
!rainbow | Makes your screen flash with different colors like a rainbow. ***__NOTE: EPILEPSY WARNING.__***
!reloadscripts | Reloads the champion/buff/item scripts. NOTE: Can cause a few seconds of lag for everyone.
!revive | Respawns your champion if they are dead.
!size \<size\> | Adds <size> size to your champion. Can be made negative to get smaller.
!skillpoints | Adds 17 skill points to your champion.
!spawn \<minionsblue\|minionspurple\> | Spawns 4 randomly-placed minions around you from the associated team.
!spawnstate \<0=disable\|1=enable\> | Toggles minion spawns.
!speed \<speed\> | Adds <speed> speed to your champion. Can be made negative to slow down.
!tp \<x, y\> | Teleports your champion to the given coordinates. NOTE: Does nothing if the given coordinate is a wall.
!xp \<xp\> | Adds <xp> XP to your champion. Can be made negative to remove XP.