Creating custom champions is now possible. In this guide we will explain you how to create it ;)

You'll have Client files and GameServer files:

* [Client Files:](https://github.com/LeagueSandbox/GameServer/wiki/5.01.-Creating-Custom-Champions#client-files) We recommend you to download a LoL 4.20 with easy access to files. This can be the Garena version or the version that contains DATA folder. This tutorial we'll be explained using that DATA folder. After we finish our development, we are going to "inject" those files in the `RADS` folder.

* [GameServer Files:](https://github.com/LeagueSandbox/GameServer/wiki/5.01.-Creating-Custom-Champions#gameserver-files) GameServer needs some JSON and C# scripts files. We'll explain all about it.

___________________________________________________________

## Client Files

Our champ will be in `DATA/Characters` in a folder with his name. So, create a folder in `DATA/Characters/YourChamp`. This folder is going to have a main file named `YourChamp.inibin`. `Inibin` files are like Json files, they store values.
You cannot create a `inibin` file, but we can copy/paste one from other champion and then we can change the name of the file to the name we want. 

#### How can we edit that file?

Wooxy can open, read, edit and save inibin files. Download Wooxy and edit `YourChamp.inibin`. As we copied the one from other champion, you should read all the content and edit all what you need.

#### Model

The champion model is saved in `DATA/Characters/ChampionName/Skins` so create a folder named `Skins`. Our Basic model (the default skin) is going to be saved in a folder called `Base` in our `Skins` folder. Now, you might be asking: how can I create a model?

Creating a model requires 3D modeling skills. You can use Maya to create your own champion models. We cannot explain all here, but there is a [great explanation here](https://mapskins.com/2015/12/30/intro-into-model-creation/). It will explain you how to create champions using Maya and then how to save it in files that League can read

#### Spells (Skills)

Spells are stored in `DATA/Characters/ChampionName/Spells`. 

#### HUD

HUD (icons and so) are stored in `DATA/Characters/ChampionName/HUD`. All the thing stored here are images in `.dds`. You can edit `dds` files with a lot of apps. For example: you can use Visual Studio. As with most of the files, by the moment, we recommend you to copy/paste the HUD folder of the same `champion.inibin`.

## GameServer Files

All the content that GameServer needs is in `GameServer/Content/Data/LeagueSandbox-Default`.

#### Spells (C# script)

Create a folder in `GameServer/Content/Data/LeagueSandbox-Default/Champions/ChampionName`. There, create `Q.cs`, `W.cs`, `E.cs`, `R.cs` and `Passive.cs`. [Check this guide to meet the API and to learn coding of skills in C# scripts](https://github.com/LeagueSandbox/GameServer/wiki/4.03.-Scripting-API)

#### Spells (JSON)

Go to `GameServer/Content/Data/LeagueSandbox-Default/Spells/`. There you have to put all the spell files you used in Client files. 
But your Client Spell files are in `.inibin`. You need to parse them to JSON files.

* How can I parse `INIBIN` to `JSON`?

There are a lot of apps that let you do this. You can try using [Pupix parser that runs in NodeJS](https://github.com/Pupix/lol-inibin-parser).

* Where should I put those JSON files?

Create a folder for each spell. Use the same name for the folder and for the file. Something like `GameServer/Content/Data/LeagueSandbox-Default/Spells/YourSpell/YourSpell.json`.

#### Basic Attack

GameServer needs the spell called `ChampionBasicAttack.json`. You can use one of other champ. As other spells, it has to be `GameServer/Content/Data/LeagueSandbox-Default/Spells/ChampBasicAttack/ChampBasicAttack.json`

#### Stats 

Champion stats can be found in `GameServer/Content/Data/LeagueSandbox-Default/Stats`. Create a folder for your champion and create there your `Champion.json`. It should look like this: `GameServer/Content/Data/LeagueSandbox-Default/Stats/Champion/Champion.json`. That JSON will be your `Champion.inibin`.
You can parse it from `inibin` to `json` with the same way as before

